This is gonna be a topic on ionic bonding. What is basically an ionic bond. So we will see that this is just simply at the very basic level. This is a metal bonded to a non-metal, where one of the electrons, as it shows here in the sodium, is given away to the fluorine, the non-metal, then that fluorine picks up the extra electron. So what ends up happening is you create two ions. One that we should know already, the cat ion, it's going to end up losing that ion, that electron, sorry. And it can do this. Why? Because it has ionization energies that are better than that, help it lose that electron. And then the anion is going to end up being a negatively charged ion because it's going to pick up that electron. So both of these started out as neutral atoms. The cat ion loses one electron and the anion ends up picking up one electron, much like it shows here. So this is the process. We give it some energy, that electron is kicked out, It's lost. Now, we can see that here goes from a neutral atom, energies kicks in, checks out that electron. Now the nucleus doesn't have that corresponding electron to balance out. And so it ends up with a plus one charge. So everything that's given up, there's gonna be some type of exchange here. There's always that conservation of charge, conservation of mass. The an-ion will end up picking up this electron. This electron is going to help make this neutral atom, as we see here, negative. Okay?

Okay? So the charge ends up, I guess we'll say decreasing, becoming negative because it picks up that one electron. This little slide is a nice little summary. You can find it on Wikipedia. It shows right here in the middle, what's going on here is the neutral atom. You have a proton, one electron. If you lose that one electron going to the left, you end up with a cation. So protons, 10 electrons charge overall is one. And we can call it a hydrogen ion. I always like to remember this, and I've mentioned this one to the other professors. The cats, people like them. People think that they're positive. And so I always call this a cation because it is, pause it to the negative one. I have no simple way for you to remember this. I really don't. I can see here, here is going to pick up one electron. So we go from one electron to two electrons, like it shows right here. Still one proton, the overall charge is increased or decreased. However you want to look at it by one or negative one because of that charge from the electron. This becomes a hydrogen anion. And I guess the only way I can really, the only way I can really describe this to you or help you remember it is this negative or N is for negative. Okay? That's still the way I remember it. Hopefully there's other ways. If you know another way, please post it in the discussion forum or in the notes for this video. And that'd be fantastic because everybody learns differently. And if you can explain in multiple ways, it helps lots and lots of people. So I appreciate that if you would. So what's going on here? We have this ionic bond. It's held together by, as we saw, a charge, that charge that we're going to call this is specifically an electrostatic bond. Whoops, gotten a little skewed here holding this anion and this cat ions. So if you remember from the slide before, you had, I think it was sodium positive and then a negative fluorine. Typically like if you're gonna go into further courses in chemistry, especially organic chemistry. These anions are gonna be listed like that. You're going to have some metal charged hooked up to some non-metal charge. And they will be written this way rather than how we might be used to see a number it and that's just sodium chloride or in this case, sodium fluoride. So just keep that in mind. That's just a little note, tuck it away if you wanted to use it. Great. If not, it's just a piece of FYI, okay? So the electrons in this specific bond, they are taken by the an-ion, the non-metal. They are not shared like we'll see with the covalent bonds. Okay? Typically these are gonna be made with your group one alkali metals. So remember here, this is your group one, this column here. And then also the group too, alkaline metals are going to be usually paired up with some non-metal. Okay? Why is this going to be important? We'll see that this will be important later on when we're gonna get into crystal lattices and how the different charges affect the stability of these crystal lattices. Alright, and when we get to that, there's gonna be a really great video. And I thank you all for your time.