Alright, so this is going to be born Haber cycle lattice energy, kinda just breaking down all the little steps that are going on in this section. This is in general how we go about describing how are one way we go about describing how the lattice or how the gaseous ions form this solid state structure, how they make a crystal basically. Alright? So there's a couple of steps. We've broken them up into four general steps. There's some little subcategories or sub-steps in there we'll talk about. But the big, well, yes, the big way that we describe born Haber cycle is by how we apply Hess's Law. Hess's law, you should recall from general chemistry one, it's basically a way to count of all the thermodynamic quantities. So how much energy is going out, how much energy is coming in? And the related to the processes or each step. And then we just basically add them all together. And then we figure out how much overall energy was released or gained by the system. And that leads us to how stable or unstable. In this case the lattice is. Okay, Let's check it out. First step formation. So what's going on here? Formation we have essentially what is taking these two particles, these two reactants. And we are taking them from a solid state in the case of the metal. So the formation enthalpy is basically you're just taking these two compounds. You're mixing them together and they react. How probable that is. It depends on what the materials are, but that's without doing anything to them. Alright? So like it shows here, you start here, these are the initial states. That's what this corresponding one is for. When you just mix them. They're supposed to miraculously, not miraculously, but like spontaneously react. Okay? And then that'll give us our final states. So just as a quick tidbit, these two arrows, this red arrow coming down in this right arrow coming down over here on the right-hand side. These will end up describing the same thing, the final state, but we're gonna go about them in two different ways, as we can see here. So the next step we'll see here is how we're going to go from this metal state of solid to a gaseous metal. Like I'm describing it down here. This is always going to require some type of energy. And so you gotta go from a solid metal to a liquid metal to a gaseous metal. If you recall or if you I'm sure you've had a familiar experience with ice. Ice, you warm that up, you leave it outside. It goes from a solid ice to liquid ice to vapor steam if you heat it up. So it's basically what's going on here. So we need to get that into some type of vapor. So that way it will react and it has the energy to react with our gaseous non-metal. But in this case, since it's, this metal is, we're going to say it's a singly charged metal. It only needs one part of this diatomic molecule, this x2, whatever it can be, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, stuff like that, these diatomic molecules. But we only need one of those because it's going to take one metal to one gaseous molecule. Is that always the case? No, we can discuss that in a future video. So what we're gonna do here is we're changing the metal into a gas. We insert energy by heating it up. And that is going to be what we're calling our ionization enthalpy. Okay? So next step, and this is gonna be the ionization. We're going to now go from this solid or this, this neutral vapor. And we're going to start making the reactants. We're going to start making the soup, the parts of this reaction. Okay, So we gotta get them into a form where we can actually do something with them. And this metal gas right now is pretty, pretty sedate. So we're going to end up, like we showed in the ionic bond, which is happening here. We're going to force an ionic bond by giving more energy. So that way we can strip away that electron from the metal. And you see that going here. So first we have the enthalpy of vaporization. Because this vapor, now this metal is going from a neutral metal, putting some energy. It's not going to become a metal plus one, it loses an electron. And then we call this the enthalpy of ionization, which is also going to be equal to the ionization energy, is how much, how much energy it needs to kick off that electron from the metal. The next step is going to be our bond enthalpy. It's gonna be how much energy do we need to break this x2, this diatomic molecule bond and just give us a single atom of that molecule. We're not yet making ions. All we're doing is breaking that bond. And in this case, one example that we're using is gonna be fluorine. Is fluorine, fluorine bond is broken and we make this x single atom. Okay? So here we go from x2, what we need only in this molecule or in this reaction is going to be 1.5 of that bond of x2. And so we end up breaking that by giving, like it shows here, we'll fix that, but it's ionization energy, or energy n, sorry. And we breaking that bond and we're just left with one atom of that molecule. This is going to be our enthalpy of dissociation. And this is gonna be positive. Like every other step that's going up. It's gonna be a positive enthalpy because you're taking in this energy, it's endothermic. Okay? So on the top here, and these are just basically, we'll see in our intermediates, Nothing's going on here right now. Everything is just sitting up there. You have your metal ion, you have your 1.5 of the gaseous molecule, and you have that extra electron that was taken off the metal. Now, the next step, we're going to end up picking up that extra electron, giving it. And because fluorine is so, I'll say greedy, it wants that electron, electron, electron affinity is fairly high, so it will take that. And we'll see this here. This electron affinity, the gaseous ion of the diatomic molecule, picks up the electron, you make this negative anion. And we have here our positive cat ion. Ok? And now you are picking up this electrons. So this nonmetal picks up one electron, the energy is released. That's what's here. Every time we went up that was increasing energy. Now some of that energy is being given off, typically in the form of heat. It could also be light or sound. Okay? And then we make our non-metal anion, we have a negative enthalpy. It's our electron affinity because it's being released out from the reaction rather than being absorbed into the reaction that we're last step is going to be the lattice enthalpy. Now we have these two ions are positive or negative anion. They're coming together the reacting as we would see through the kinetic molecule theory. And so they're banging into each other. And then you have no longer ions. Now, you have a ionic bond with a ionic solid that's being created. And it may be just deposited on the side of the vessel as solid crystal as it cools down and it's releasing even more energy. Okay, our lattice enthalpy. And it becomes the final state, which there's two ways that we said of getting there. One is basically just mixing them. And then the other one where you go systematically and you're trying to analyze every step and you're breaking it apart, giving energy, taking energy. And then finally, it becomes our last final state which we want. Okay, that's leading us to this next one. How do we account for all this energy? Well, this first step, this enthalpy of formation, should be equal to all of the energies that we see going up. The enthalpy of vaporization or sublimation, the enthalpy of dissociation, the ionization energy, the electron affinity, and the lattice enthalpy. So these are two different routes. But the energies to get to this final state will end up being the same and we can do a practice problem on that in the next video. Thank you.