Okay, so continuing on with the concept of lattice energy, this is gonna be taking topics that we already saw like ionic bonds. And also we're gonna be looking at like we saw before, the result of the born Haber process. Okay? So crystal lattice. So essentially what it is, it's, it's the extra energy that is released from the formation of a structure. It creates this will say, long-range ordered structure, even though that's not the correct or up-to-date definition of what a crystal is. But it's the one typically taught in the books. Okay? Crystal lattice is held together like we saw by electrostatic attractions. This one we should already know, right? This is gonna be our ionic bonds. The nina mason, Indianapolis special collections through the museum railway in others. The frac. This is going to be like we saw. This is going to be the crystal lattice is held together by electrostatic force. This electrostatic force we know it to be, or we can assume it to be the ionic bond that we saw before. Okay? So these attractions between the cations and the add-ons, they'll help it form as everything that wants to do create the most stable arrangement. Alright, this is gonna be lowest energy arrangement, okay? So the extra stability helps us make this crystal. It's the lattice energy that we saw on that last part of the born Haber cycle. If I can find it here, this is the last part of the foreign Haber cycle. I apologize for going at an angle and sideways but still getting used to this tablet. The lattice energy, like we saw when it's going to form these two ions come together. It's always going to be exothermic. It's hard to directly measure, but we can calculate it from the processes that we know. And it's directly dependent. And this one's huge because both the size of the charges and the distance that they are at affect how stable or how much this lattice energy is.

Okay? So here we have a case of sodium chloride. I will tell you right now, you need to go back and look at these if you don't, if it doesn't make sense, these sodiums, this is gonna be your sodium ions and the Koreans are gonna be the big green spheres. This should make sense to you because the sodium ion should be smaller because it's losing an electron. And also since the chlorine has more electrons, it should be larger relative to the sodium because it has more electrons, meaning there's more space or more volume that's being taken up by these electrons. Okay? So when these two combined, they create this solid lattice as shown here. This is what characters are actually going to characteristically call a salt lattice. Okay? And it shows you here right hand side basically trying to represent to you that there is an alternating pattern of solid, I'm sorry, negative, positive, negative, positive. And this overall energy of the lattice is going to be 788 kilojoules per mole. So we usually, when we write these energy values, they will be expressed in kilojoules per mole. Because these are defined as an amount of energy, they are typically written as positive values. So what's going on here before we saw and I mentioned, hey, there's gonna be this gas, right? This is the chlorine, it breaks apart. What's being shown here is that this, there's this sodium metal that's basically taken up to a molten state. Usually you just blow torch it for this instance. And then you stick it into the reaction vessel, you close it, you put it behind a safety sash inside the laboratory. And you try to be as careful as you can because this will be an extremely violent reaction. It's going from like shows here, sodium and chlorine ions to sodium chloride. But in this case that energy that's released through this heat, through this exothermic process. Is gonna be that lattice energy. This video, I found it on YouTube. I follow this gentleman Niall read. It's a fantastic video showing you in a couple of minutes everything that's going on. And like all science, there are some how do we call them? We call them ways in which the experiment did not work. Other people call them failures, but it didn't work out that way. So you figure out what went wrong and you improve on the process. And this should take you, when you click on here to the right place in the video, maybe a couple of seconds before too, where he gets it to work. If it doesn't, just click on this hyperlink below, and you can scroll through it and try to find the correct place. Okay. So we said earlier that these electrostatic processes, depending on the charge and the distance, this law is called Coulomb's law. It's an inverse relationship law between the charges and the distance. We say inverse because this distance is in the denominator, it depends on the two charges that are interacting with each other. And it should make sense. The further you are from somebody that's tickets, put it in a relationship or a how well you know someone, right? The less likely you are to ask them for something, right? So that relationship, that distance between you kinda prevents you from asking him for many things. So in this case of the ions, the further away they are, the less interaction there is going to be. And they get to a point where there is actually no interaction because the distance is just so large. This lattice energy depends on the magnitude and the distance there has to be an equilibrium point. This nice goldilocks spot where the perfect distance and the charges are going to interact. And that's what will we go about here? How can we describe this electrostatic lattice energy? This is gonna be the overall energy of that system that we're looking at the force, because it is, we'll see later on a like a spring going on. And as you become the solids, they are less movement in these atoms or ions into solid, but there's still some small movements. So usually you're going to have a charge positive and a charge negative, right? Because it's an electrostatic bond. And then the distance that's going between them. Alright. So here we can see magnesium fluoride plus two on the cat ion, minus one on the anions. It's a lower energy, 2957. When we look at the increase charges on these two particles. And this is 3,938. Lithium fluoride, a 1036 versus lithium chloride. Same charges plus one plus one, minus one minus one. But then you have the distance, the distance between the fluorine and the chlorine of the atomic radii or I'm sorry, the amniotic or ionic radii is going to be more for the chlorine. So that distance between them, that interaction radius is decreased. So the enthalpy is decreasing because the radius is increasing. Alright? So keep that in mind. We can see that a couple of more examples here. Visually, lithium iodide negative one plus one. Here's the atomic radii of the materials. And the overall force that we're looking at. Sodium and iodine plus one minus one radii increases. So force decreases. Potassium iodide, 1.38. And then we see plus one plus one. So you see a trend here, small, smallest, smaller, largest. Okay? And so we see here also the trend, the force is decreasing as ionic radii increases. And we should see also lattice energy is decreasing as the interaction distance increases. It's always saying here to pointing out this more explicitly. Lithium fluoride smaller. But even though the radii increases on these two, the overall charge on top is going to be great enough to overcome this preferred ionic radii distance. Alright, so this lattice energy is going to be much stronger than this lithium fluoride would be. Here's just a couple of examples. What's going on? We kinda go through and you will think about these lithium fluoride lattice energies kinda high and it goes down.

high and it goes down. Keeps on going. And then we see down here boom, two thousand, five hundred, four thousand melting points. They see lattice energy goes down. Melting points follow that same trend until you get to here, you see these increase in lattice energy, increasing melting points. And then here the sodium oxide, it actually doesn't melt. It just sublimated at 1275 degrees. So it means it's not going to go from the solid to liquid. It's just going to go solid. Liquid gas. That's really interesting. Alright, that's it for this afternoon. And we'll continue in the next section of covalent bonds. Thank you.